<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.1.2-Based Variant V1.0//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY kappname '<application>KMouseTool</application>'>
  <!ENTITY kapp "&kappname;">
  <!ENTITY package "kdeaccessibility">
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE"><!-- change language only here -->


  <!-- Do not define any other entities; instead, use the entities
       from kde-genent.entities and $LANG/user.entities. -->
]>
<!-- kdoctemplate v0.8 October 1 1999
     Minor update to "Credits and Licenses" section on August 24, 2000
     Removed "Revision history" section on 22 January 2001   -->

<!--
This template was designed by: David Rugge davidrugge@mindspring.com
with lots of help from: Eric Bischoff ebisch@cybercable.tm.fr
and Frederik Fouvry fouvry@sfs.nphil.uni-tuebingen.de
of the KDE DocBook team.

You may freely use this template for writing any sort of KDE documentation.
If you have any changes or improvements, please let us know.

In the future, we may want to change from SGML-based DocBook to XML-based
DocBook. To make this change easier, please be careful :
- in XML, the case of the <tags> and attributes is relevant ;
- also, quote all attributes.

Please don't forget to remove all these comments in your final documentation,
thanks ;-).
-->

<!-- ................................................................ -->

<!-- The language must NOT be changed here. -->

<book lang="&language;">

<!-- This header contains all of the meta-information for the document such
as Authors, publish date, the abstract, and Keywords -->

<bookinfo>
<title>The &kapp; Handbook</title>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Jeff</firstname>
<othername></othername>
<surname>Roush</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>jeff@&kapp;.com</email></address>
</affiliation>
</author>
</authorgroup>

<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->

<copyright>
<year>2002</year>
<holder>Jeff Roush</holder>
</copyright>
<!-- Translators: put here the copyright notice of the translation -->
<!-- Put here the FDL notice.  Read the explanation in fdl-notice.docbook
     and in the FDL itself on how to use it. -->
<legalnotice>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>

<!-- Date and version information of the documentation
Don't forget to include this last date and this last revision number, we
need them for translation coordination !
Please respect the format of the date (DD/MM/YYYY) and of the version
(V.MM.LL), it could be used by automation scripts.
Do NOT change these in the translation. -->

<date>2002-06-23</date>
<releaseinfo>1.01.00</releaseinfo>

<!-- Abstract about this handbook -->

<abstract>
<para>
&kapp; clicks the mouse for you, reducing RSI pain.
</para>
</abstract>

<!-- This is a set of Keywords for indexing by search engines.
Please at least include KDE, the KDE package it is in, the name
 of your application, and a few relevant keywords. -->

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>kdeutils</keyword>
<keyword>KMouseTool</keyword>
<keyword>ergonomic</keyword>
<keyword>tendonitis</keyword>
<keyword>carpal tunnel syndrom</keyword>
</keywordset>

</bookinfo>

<chapter id="introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>
&kapp; clicks the mouse whenever the mouse cursor pauses briefly.  It was designed to help those
with repetitive strain injuries, for whom pressing buttons hurts.
It can also drag the mouse, although this takes a bit more practice.
</para>

<para>
&kapp; can eliminate the pain caused by clicking the mouse, and helps many
people to use the computer without pain.  Unfortunately, some pain can also
be caused by simply moving the mouse around the table.  If you are experiencing
computer-related pain and haven't yet seen a doctor, please do so.
</para>
<para>
Just to make it absolutely clear: while &kapp; can help reduce the pain
caused by <emphasis>clicking</emphasis> the mouse, it can not help any pain
caused by <emphasis>moving</emphasis> the mouse.  And, like all ergonomic tools,
your mileage may vary.
</para>

</chapter>


<chapter id="using-kmousetool">
<title>Using &kapp;</title>
<para>
Using &kapp; is simple: &kapp; watches as you move the mouse, and
when you pause briefly, it clicks.
</para>

<para>
&kapp;'s Smart Drag mode allows you to drag the mouse.
</para>

<para>
When Smart Drag is enabled, &kapp; pauses after it clicks down; if you
move the mouse, it waits until you stop moving before it clicks up. This
way, you can both click and drag the mouse. Smart Drag takes a bit more
practice, but becomes natural once you get used to it.
</para>

</chapter>


<chapter id="commands">
<title>Command Reference</title>

<!-- (OPTIONAL, BUT RECOMMENDED) This chapter should list all of the
application windows and their menubar and toolbar commands for easy reference.
Also include any keys that have a special function but have no equivalent in the
menus or toolbars. This may not be necessary for small apps or apps with no tool
or menu bars. -->

<sect1 id="kmousetool-mainwindow">
<title>The main &kapp; window</title>
<para></para>

    <para>&kapp;'s
    options are accessed mostly via the mouse.</para>


    <variablelist>
      <varlistentry>
        <term><option>Smart Drag</option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>Enables or disables Smart Drag.  Disabled use is easier, so this is the default.</para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>
      <varlistentry>
        <term><option>Audible Click</option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>
	 Plays a sound when &kapp; clicks down.  This helps, especially
         with Smart Drag.
	  </para>
	  <para>
	 If the sound seems delayed, you can have KDE speed it up.  To do this
	 open the KDE Control Center, click on "Sound", then on "Sound Server", and then
	 select the Sound I/O tab on the right side of the screen.  At the bottom
	 of the tab, there is an "Audio buffer size (response time)" adjustment;
	 slide this to the left to speed up the audio response time.

	  </para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>
      <varlistentry>
        <term><option>Start with KDE</option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>When this is enabled, &kapp; will start each time KDE starts.
	  At the moment, this only works under kDE.  Under Gnome or other Window Managers,
	  see the documentation for the Window Manager itself to see how to start a
	  program automatically when you start the windowing system.</para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>
      <varlistentry>
        <term><option>Dwell Time</option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>The time the mouse has to pause before &kapp; clicks.
	  Try increasing this time if
	  it is hard getting used to &kapp; </para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>
      <varlistentry>
        <term><option>Drag Time</option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>
	 (When Smart Drag is enabled) the time &kapp; waits, after it clicks
                        down, before it clicks back up if you don't move the mouse.

	  </para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>
      <varlistentry>
        <term><option>Apply Times Button</option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>After changing either time, you must click this button.</para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>
      <varlistentry>
        <term><option>Start Button</option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>Starts (or stops) &kapp;.</para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>
      <varlistentry>
        <term><option>Strokes</option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>
As of version 1.1, &kapp; now supports strokes.  When you enable strokes, a slow move to the
  right and back, followed by a pause, will generate a right-click.  A slow move
  left and back will generate a double click.  (Strokes are specified in
  ~/.kde3/share/config/kmousetool_strokes.txt.  This file is generated by &kapp; 
  the first time it is run, but can be modified afterwards.)

	  </para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>
    </variablelist>


</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="Tips">
<title>Tips</title>

<para>
These tips can help shorten &kapp;'s learning curve a bit.
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>You can modify the time delays &kapp; waits, for both clicking and for dragging.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem><para>It's best to practice clicking with &kapp; using its defaults first.
You may especially want to leave Smart Drag disabled at first.
Then, once you are comfortable clicking, move on to practicing Smart Drag.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem><para>When using Smart Drag, it may help to enable the Audible Click</para>
</listitem>
<listitem><para>When using the Audible Click, you may need to speed up KDE's audio response.</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>

</chapter>

<chapter id="faq">
<title>Questions and Answers</title>

<!-- (OPTIONAL but recommended) This chapter should include all of the silly
(and not-so-silly) newbie questions that fill up your mailbox. This chapter
should be reserved for BRIEF questions and answers! If one question uses more
than a page or so then it should probably be part of the
"Using this Application" chapter instead. You should use links to
cross-reference questions to the parts of your documentation that answer them.
This is also a great place to provide pointers to other FAQ's if your users
must do some complicated configuration on other programs in order for your
application work. -->

&reporting.bugs;
&updating.documentation;

<qandaset id="faqlist">
<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Help!  &kapp; keeps dropping spurious clicks all over the screen!</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>
When you are using &kapp;, you do have to learn new mousing habits.
</para>
<para>
First,
keep in mind where it's safe to click -- clicking on grey parts of windows or non-link
areas of web browsers won't hurt anything, so you can safely rest the mouse over those areas 
until you need it.
</para>
<para>
Second, you need to know where you're going to click before you move
the mouse. Most of the time, when we know we're going to use the mouse, most of
us grab the mouse and start moving it around randomly until we figure out where
we want to click. With &kapp;, you need to know where you're going to click
before you move the mouse in the first place. It is also a good idea to keep
your hands off the mouse when you're not using it.
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>My mouse sticks when I move it. Can I still use &kapp;?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Yes. If your mouse sticks, it means you need to clean your mouse.
This is usually easy to do; the trick is that you have to clean not just the
mouse's ball, but the rollers that the ball rolls against inside the mouse.</para>
<para>First, you have to remove the ball.  The method for doing this varies from
mouse to mouse, but it's usually pretty clear how to do this if you look at
the bottom of the mouse.</para>
<para>Once you've removed the ball, you should be able to see the rollers on the
sides of the hole that contained the ball.  The dirt and grime on them can be
easily scraped off with a flat blade or with a fingernail.  </para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>&kapp; clicks down and never clicks up. What's happening?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>In some rare situations, the system suspends &kapp; when a drag
starts; if you are using Smart Drag, this means thar &kapp; can never finish the drag by
clicking up.</para>
<para>The solution is to simply click manually; this resets &kapp;, and you can then
continue to work normally again.</para>
<para>
This happens when you use &kapp; under a non-KDE window manager and then
use it to move a window.  
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>

&kapp; moves the cursor when I'm trying to type.</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Problem: When you're typing text, &kapp; keeps
dropping clicks and moving the cursor away from where you want to type.</para>
<para>Solution: Use the mouse to place the cursor where you want it, but when you're ready
to type, park the mouse on a neutral area on the screen. Then, if you
bump the mouse, or if it moves a few pixels, any random clicks that it sends
won't matter. Safe places to park the mouse include the gray areas
around toolbars and menus, and on the title bars of windows.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>I'm trying to use Smart Drag, but I can't get the hang of using it to edit text.</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>
Smart Drag is an advanced feature of &kapp;, and takes some getting used to. It is very
possible to use it to select text, to cut and paste, and use it in almost any situation
where you would normally want to drag the mouse. But you probably won't be able to do this
at first. Here are some suggestions:
</para>
<para>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>Don't use Smart Drag while you are first learning to use &kapp;. Instead,
to select text, click at one end of the text, and hold down
the shift key while you click at the other end of the text.
</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Use the Audible Click.  This will play a "click" sound when &kapp; clicks
down, and this will tell you when the Smart Drag delay is beginning.  With practice, you
can use Smart Drag without the Audible Click (honest!), but it does take a fair amount of practice.
</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Know where you're going to click the mouse before you begin moving it.
</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

</qandaset>
</chapter>

<chapter id="credits">

<!-- Include credits for the programmers, documentation writers, and
contributors here. The license for your software should then be included below
the credits with a reference to the appropriate license file included in the KDE
distribution. -->

<title>Credits and License</title>

<para>
&kapp;
</para>
<para>
Program copyright 2002 Jeff Roush<email>jeff@mousetool.com</email>
</para>
<para>
Contributors:
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>Jeff Roush<email>jeff@mousetool.com</email></para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>

<para>
Documentation copyright 2002 Jeff Roush<email>jeff@mousetool.com</email>
</para>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->

&underFDL;
&underGPL;        	 <!-- GPL License -->

</chapter>

<appendix id="installation">
<title>Installation</title>

<sect1 id="getting-kmousetool">
<title>How to obtain &kapp;</title>

<para>
&kappname; can be downloaded from the KDE accessibility site,
<ulink url="http://accessibility.kde.org/">http://accessibility.kde.org/</ulink>.
or from the MouseTool site,
<ulink url="http://www.mousetool.com/">www.mousetool.com</ulink></para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="requirements">
<title>Requirements</title>

<para>
In order to successfully use &kappname;, you need KDE 2.0 or higher.
You also need the XTest extension compiled as part of your X-Windows.  This should
already be installed on your system; very few systems won't have it.  If you
<emphasis>don't</emphasis> have this installed, please send an email to me at
<email>jeff@mousetool.com</email>.
</para>
<para>
In order to use the Audible Click feature, you will have to have a sound card and speakers,
and you will have to have configured the sound card correctly.
</para>

<!-- For a list of updates, you may refer to the application web site
or the ChangeLog file, or ... -->
<para>
You can find a list of changes at <ulink
url="http://www.mousetool.com">http://www.mousetool.com</ulink>.
</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="compilation">
<title>Compilation and Installation</title>

<para>
In order to compile and install &kapp; on your system, type the following in the base
directory of the &kapp; distribution:
<screen width="40">
<prompt>%</prompt> <userinput>./configure</userinput>
<prompt>%</prompt> <userinput>make</userinput>
<prompt>%</prompt> <userinput>make install</userinput>
</screen>
</para>

<para>
If your Linux distribution placed the KDE files in a non-default location, you may
have to modify the first line.  For Redhat-based distributions and Debian, use this line:
<screen width="40">
<prompt>%</prompt> <userinput>./configure --prefix=/usr</userinput>
</screen>
</para>
<para>
In addition, for Debian, the install line should look like this:
<screen width="40">
<prompt>%</prompt> <userinput>make install kde_htmldir=/usr/share/doc/kde/HTML</userinput>
</screen>
</para>

<para>Since &kapp; uses autoconf and automake you should have not trouble compiling it,
if you follow the above directions.
Should you run into problems please report them to the KDE mailing lists.</para>

</sect1>

</appendix>

&documentation.index;
</book>
<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-minimize-attributes:nil
sgml-general-insert-case:lower
sgml-indent-step:0
sgml-indent-data:nil
End:
-->













